---
layout: post
title: MCO 2014 Training Camp
wordpress_id: 145
wordpress_url: http://beta.ioimalaysia.org/?page_id=145
categories: []
tags: []
---
#### UPDATE (8 FEBRUARY 2014)
Thanks to everyone involved -- participants and trainers -- for a successful camp.Dr. Shawn Tan, one of the trainers, wrote about the event on his column at [Digital News Asia](http://www.digitalnewsasia.com/insights/kids-learning-to-code).#### UPDATE (9 DECEMBER 2013)
The following 36 registered participants have been selected to attend the MCO training camp:1. Gan Wen Qi, Asia Pacific Smart School2. Chia Xin Liang, Chung Hua High School Seremban3. Yong Zheng Xin, Chung Hua High School Seremban4. Lew Chen Chang, Hin Hua High School5. Lee Ting Sheng, Hin Hua High School6. Megat Hakimi Nafis Megat Kamil Azmi, Kolej Mara Seremban7. Nur Fatihah Athira Binti Muhamad, Kolej Yayasan Saad8. Tan See Yee, KYUEM9. Muhammad Azraei Hadi Bin Baharul Aizal, MRSM Batu Pahat10. Mohd Nazri Syah Bin Sani, MRSM Pontian11. Muhammad Azrin Bin Muhammad Azhar, MRSM Pontian12. Nur Aliah Binti Husaimi, MRSM Pontian13. Muhammad Aiman Bin Abu Sopian, MRSM Pontian14. Muhammad Hazeem Aiman Bin Ismadi, MRSM Pontian15. Raja Amirul Muhaimin Bin Raja Abd Aziz, MRSM Transkrian16. Ahmad Fikri Bin Aidil Adha, MRSM Transkrian17. Lee Wai Hon, MRSM Transkrian18. Muhd Nabil Farhan B. Abdul Razak, MRSM Transkrian19. Chew Jie Heng, Pusat PERMATApintar Negara20. Reshidran A/L Nahenthara Raj, Pusat PERMATApintar Negara21. Lim Jian Liang, SMJK Chung Hwa Confucian22. Khoo Zi Xian, SMJK Chung Hwa Confucian23. Anzo Teh Zhao Yang, SMJK Chung Ling Butterworth24. Yee Xin En, SMJK Chung Ling Butterworth25. Daniel Lim Wee Soong, SMJK Chung Ling, Pulau Pinang26. Ong Chien Sern, SMJK Keat Hwa27. Khong Yi Kye, SMJK Sin Min28. Sean Gee Zhing, SMJK Yok Bin29. Tan Zi Fan, SMK Seri Bintang Selatan30. Lee Kian Boon, SMK USJ 1231. Low Jun Keat, SMK USJ 1232. Ivan Lau Peng Hui, Taylor's College Subang Jaya33. Lim Wei Yi, Taylor's College Subang Jaya34. Khairunizam Bin Ab Rahman, MRSM Pontian (teacher)35. Rozita Saad, MRSM Transkrian (teacher)36. Zuraini Bt Abdullah, MRSM Transkrian (teacher)We hope you can confirm your attendance as soon as possibe, by contacting Ms. Atikah Halim at 019-5029764 / atikah_halim@outlook.com .___________________________________________________________________The Malaysian Informatics and Programming Society (MIPS) and Kulliyyah of ICT, IIUM is proud to organize the _Malaysia Computing Olympiad (MCO) Training Camp_ during the upcoming school holidays.#### BACKGROUND
The objective of this camp is to train students in C++ programming in preparation for the MCO 2014.MCO 2014 is an online C++ programming competition that will be the next selection process for the Malaysian national team to International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) 2014. The MCO will be held tentatively in April 2014.The training camp is open only to the individual Gold and Silver medallists in MCC 2013.We would like to note that attending this camp is **optional**. Individual MCC 2013 Gold and Silver medallists who decide not to attend this camp will still qualify for MCO 2014.#### REGISTRATION
Please register by 1 December at the following link:[https://docs.google.com/forms/<wbr />d/1zKBR6nXJ-9qZ0c-<wbr />RsA5gEPw6Elc4X_DzZbJmst7pdhU/<wbr />viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1zKBR6nXJ-9qZ0c-RsA5gEPw6Elc4X_DzZbJmst7pdhU/viewform)Since space is limited, we can only accept 30 participants, and therefore not all applicants will be guaranteed a slot. Successful and unsuccessful applicants will be notified by email on 8 December. Teachers (whose students are attending) are also welcome to register for the camp.#### DATES &amp; TIME
21-22 December 2013 (Saturday &amp; Sunday), <span style="line-height: 1.714285714; font-size: 1rem;">9am to 5pm daily.</span>#### VENUE
Training room, 3rd floor, Wisma JobStreet.com, Lorong Medan Tuanku 1, Medan Tuanku, 50300 KL.#### ACCOMMODATION
You will need to arrange for your own accommodation and transport to and from the venue. For those traveling from out of state and need a place to stay, there are many budget hotels nearby, e.g., Prescott Inn (Medan Tuanku), Tune Hotel (Downtown KL). We will not help with hotel booking, nor will we be responsible for safety outside the training period.#### TRAINERS
The trainer for this camp is Dr. Ong Shien Jin (President of MIPS), who is the Malaysian Team Leader to IOI 2011 and IOI 2012. He will be assisted by top performers in MCO 2013: How Si Yu, How Si Wei, Justin Lim Kai Ze, Lim Yun Kai and Ho Yi Hang.#### EQUIPMENT
Please bring your own laptop and charger.#### FEES
There is no fee charged for this camp as it is run by volunteers. However, we welcome gifts to the MIPS, a not-for-profit society. Recommended gift is RM100 for this 2-day event.
