---
layout: post
title: MCC 2014
wordpress_id: 149
wordpress_url: http://beta.ioimalaysia.org/?page_id=149
categories: []
tags: []
---
## Results
The results for MCC 2014 are out. View them [here](http://ioimalaysia.org/competitions/malaysian-computing-challenge/mcc-2014/results/ "MCC 2014 Results").## Important Dates
- **23 September 2014**: Deadline for [registration](#registration).
- **3-25 September 2014**: MCC 2014 [demo problem](http://mcc2014.ioimalaysia.org/demo) available for practice.
- **26-28 September 2014**: MCC 2014 Competition Days (Time: 12:01am on 26 Sept 2014 to 11:59pm on 28 Sept 2014).
## Overview
### What is MCC?
The Malaysian Computing Challenge (MCC) is an annual online competition designed for students (with no prior programming experience) to solve challenging computational problems.### Organizers
MCC is brought to you by the Malaysian Informatics and Programming Society in collaboration with the Kulliyyah of ICT, International Islamic University Malaysia. See our [About](/about) page for more details.### Beyond MCC
The MCC is the preliminary selection process of a year-long program to identify and train the top programming talents in Malaysian schools. Top scorers in MCC will be:1. Invited to a programming camp, tentatively to be held in December 2014.
2. Upon successful completion of the camp, to be invited to the Malaysian Computing Olympiad (MCO), a real-time programming competition, to be held tentatively in April 2015.
The top scorers in MCO will be called for a series of intensive training camps conducted by experienced Olympiad participants. Students who qualify at this level will participate in [Asia Pacific Informatics Olympiad (APIO)](http://www.apio.olympiad.org/), an annual online contest among countries in the Pacific Rim region. After the training camps and APIO, four students will be selected to represent Malaysia in [International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI)](http://www.ioinformatics.org/) 2015 which will take place in Kazakhstan on July 2015.## Dates and Venue
The MCC 2014 online competition will take place on **26-28 September 2014**. Participants can submit their solutions anytime within these **3 days**, starting from **12:01am on 26 September 2014** to **11:59pm on 28 September 2014**. There is no fixed venue. Participants can attempt the problems anywhere following the [honour code](#honour).## Format and Sample Questions
The format of MCC 2014 is an _online _competition. Students will need access to a computer and internet in order to participate in this competition. Note that this is different from the previous year's paper-based competition.Problems in MCC 2014 are split into 2 parts - the _easy_ tasks and the _challenging_ tasks. No programming is required to solve the easy tasks on MCC 2014. In order to solve the challenging tasks, however, we recommend participants to learn the Python programming language using this [tutorial](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/). The best way to prepare for MCC 2014 is to attempt our [demo problem](http://mcc2014.ioimalaysia.org/demo).Each participant will be assigned a log-in credential (a username and a password), which will be sent by email to the Teacher-in-Charge on 23 September. The Teacher-in-Charge is responsible of notifying all participants of their log-in credentials. The usernames and passwords will work only during the contest period.Note that MCC problems are given only in English.### Technical Requirements
We recommend all participants to use the [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/) web browser. Below is the list of supported browsers- Chrome 37 and above
- Firefox 31 and above
- Safari 7 and above
- Opera 24 and above
- Internet Explorer 10 and 11
Internet Explorer 9 and below are strongly **not recommended**. Participants can still submit solutions to the problems but will not have access to the full features of the competition. Please test your browser on the [demo problem](http://mcc2014.ioimalaysia.org/demo) before the competition.## Categories and Awards
There are three categories for the MCC:1. Bongsu / Junior – Form 1, 2, 3, or Primary school
2. Muda / Intermediate – Form 4, 5
3. Sulung / Senior – Form 6 (lower &amp; upper), Pre-U (Matriculation, Foundation Studies, IB, A-Levels, etc.).
All students will take part in the same competition, but prizes will be awarded by category. There will be individual and team prizes. Individual prizes are Gold, Silver, Bronze and Honorable Mention awards. The best performing five students in each category will automatically be in the school’s team. Teams are ranked according to the total of their individual scores. Team prizes are also Gold, Silver, Bronze and Honorable Mention awards. Please consider sending at least five students per category. This would allow your school to qualify for a team prize.## Registration
### Eligibility
The MCC is open to all primary, secondary and pre-university students in Malaysia.### Form
Please read the section on [Overview the Malaysian Computing Challenge](#overview) first before you register, as the section contains all the relevant information about MCC 2014. We will only accept online registration. To register, please download the following order form (Excel file):[**MCC 2014 REGISTRATION FORM**](http://ioimalaysia.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/MCC-2014-Registration-Form.xlsx)Complete the form, and return it (in Excel format) by email to ``mcc-info [at] googlegroups [dot] com`` along with payment of the registration fee. You may keep a printed copy of the form for your official record; it is not necessary to send a hardcopy to us. Your registration is considered complete once we receive the completed form and payment. We will send a confirmation email within 3 working days.### Fee and Payment Methods
The registration fee for MCC 2014 is RM 15 per participant, or RM 12 per participant if there are 31 or more participants from one school.#### Payment Method
You may pay the registration fee via1. Cheque
2. Money Order
3. Postal Order
4. Cash (bank-in or online transfer)
5. Pesanan Kerajaan / Pesanan Sekolah
Payment should be sent with the registration form to finalize the registration. If you are sending payment by mail, please address it to **MCC 2014 Secretariat, No. 100-1 Jalan 2/23A, Taman Danau Kota, 53300 Kuala Lumpur**. It is strongly recommended to use courier or registered mail. Please state the school name clearly. Bank account information:<div class="well">Account Name: **PERTUBUHAN INFORMATIK DAN PENGATURCARAAN MALAYSIA** Account Number: **1432-0000516-10-4** Bank: CIMB Islamic Bank (Taman Danau Kota branch). For payment via cash (bank-in or online transfer), please send the proof of transaction by email (``mcc-info [at] googlegroups [dot] com``) or fax to (03-41490572).</div>### Independent Participation
We strongly urge that anyone interested to participate to talk to your school teacher about sending a team. In the case that your school is not sending a team, or you are not currently attached to any school, you may register as an Independent Participant. If you would like to participate as an Independent Participant, please send us an email (``mcc-info [at] googlegroups [dot] com``) with the title “MCC 2014 Independent Participant” with the following information:1. Name
2. IC number
3. School name and address
4. Home address
5. Contact number
## Honour Code
All participants in MCC 2014 agree to that he or she will:- Not discuss the problems with anyone else during the competition time;
- Neither share solutions nor post solutions online during the competition time;
- Notify the organizers (``mcc-info [at] googlegroups [dot] com``) immediately if he or she becomes aware of other participants cheating.
Before the competition, participants are encouraged to attempt the [demo problem](http://mcc2014.ioimalaysia.org/demo) and learn Python together with other participants. During the competition, usage of search engines like [Google](http://www.google.com) and access to all online references like [Python Tutorial](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/) are permitted.## FAQ
Please read our[ Frequently Asked Questions](http://ioimalaysia.org/competitions/malaysian-computing-challenge/mcc-2014/faq/ "FAQ") prior to contacting us for any enquiries.## Contact
Please direct all inquiries about MCC 2014 via email to ``mcc-info [at] googlegroups [dot] com``. Download the official letter of invitation: MCC 2014 Letter of Invitation in BM or English.- [MCC 2014 Letter of Invitation - English](http://ioimalaysia.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/MCC-2014-Letter-of-Invitation-eng.pdf)
- [Surat Jemputan MCC 2014 - Bahasa Malaysia](http://ioimalaysia.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/MCC-2014-Letter-of-Invitation-bm.pdf)
